Now that we've talked about
how to use factory methods,
I thought it might be
interesting to see how factory
methods are defined internally.
So what we're going
to do in this case
is we're going to take a look
at some of the code path that's
run by the completable
futures framework
after the supply async
method is invoked.
So we're going to
use our same example
as before except now we're
going to peek under the hood
and see how it works.
Notice, of course,
that supply async
does not create a new thread.
Instead, it returns
a future that
will be completed
by a worker thread
after it finishes running
the supplier lambda passed
to it in the context of
the common fork-join pool.
Here's the supplier lambda
that multiplies the two
big fractions together and
keep your eye on the supplier
parameter because
this is what we're
going to follow as it flows
through the completable futures
internals.
Again, we can use our wonderful
effectively final variables
to pass parameters to
the supplier lambda.
And also keep that in mind, too,
because those variables are,
quote, captured and
then they're actually
going to be accessed
when we run this supplier
lambda in the background
in the thread pool.
The way this is going
to work under the hood
is that the worker thread that
executes the supplier lambda
will invoke its get method
to get the code in the lambda
and actually perform
the computation.
Remember that's one
of the key themes
and the key benefits
of a lambda expression.
It allows us to provide
so-called behavioral
parametrization.
And what we're doing
here is we're wrapping up
all the behavior we
want into a lambda,
and then we're passing it
to be run in another thread.
And so we're actually
deferring the time
at which this lambda will be
evaluated until it's actually
invoked in a different context.
So that's actually a
good example, by the way,
of the command
processor pattern, which
we've talked about before in
the context of other mechanisms
that are available in Java.
So factory method so
supply sync is really
applying the command processor
pattern among other things.
Here is what the supply
async method does.
Now I'm not going to show
you all of the code here,
but I'm going to
show you enough of it
so you can make sense out of it.
If you want to watch-- if you
want to look at all the code,
just click on the
link at the bottom,
and that will take
you to the location
where the source
code can be browsed.
So as you can see, supply
async is passed a supplier,
and, of course, that supplier
is mapping onto this supplier
lambda.
And that supplier
is then passed down
into other parts of
the completable futures
implementation.
This is, of course,
what it looks like.
That's the supplier
parameter that's
bound to the lambda that's
passed the supply async.
And you can see here that
there's a new internal class.
Remember I mentioned there's
two dozen nested classes
in the completable future
framework implementation.
Well, one of them is a
class called async supply.
And you can see that you
call async supply passing
in a supplier and
another parameter
that we're not going to
talk about right now.
This async supply
object is enqueued
into the fork-join pool's
common pool by default.
So you can see here that when
you pass this end to supply
async and you don't
provide your own pool
but you just let it use
the common pool, that's
how the common pool is
associated with that supplier.
And this is one example
of message passing
that is one of those reactive
programming principles we
talked about before.
So we're creating a message--
the supply async message
is being created,
and we're using that to pass
in the supplier to be executed
in that common pool.
And that, of
course, that message
will end up going into the pool,
and it'll be treated as a task.
The async supply class, which
we created an instance of here,
extends the async class, which
is yet another nested class,
and async extends
fork-join task and runnable
so it can be executed
in a thread pool.
So this async class
extends classes
that are used to
make sure that we
can execute this thing in the
context of the fork-join pool.
And some of this is going to
look a little familiar based
on our earlier discussions
of the other classes that
are used with the
fork-join pool, things
like the recursive task
and recursive action.
Here's the constructor
for async supply.
You can see that this goes
ahead and takes the supplier
parameter called fn for function
I suppose and goes ahead
and assigns that
to a local field.
And remember that that
supplier parameter
is the original supplier
lambda that will multiply
the big fractions together.
And then at some
point, the exact method
is called by a worker thread
in the fork-join pool.
And that exact method then
turns around and says fn--
which is the field
that we stashed away
with the parameter that
was passed all the way down
from supply async--
it says fn.get.
And that call to dotget
will trigger the invocation
of the supplier lambda that
will perform the multiplication
of the big fractions
asynchronously in a worker
thread in the fork-join pool.
So that's what's
going to happen.
And you can see in
that case, we're
going to get the result
of this, and then
that'll be able to be passed
back up through the completion
stage mechanisms we'll
talk about later.
This particular get
method could of course
use the fork-join pool manage
blocker mechanism in order
to auto scale the pool size if
this were a blocking operation.
Now in this
particular case, it's
just doing the multiplication
of two big fractions, which
may take a while to run, but
it's not really going to block.
So it would probably be overkill
to use the fork-join pool
manage blocker mechanism.
But there's no reason we
can't do that, and, in fact,
when you do do
that, then the get
call will, in fact, use
that mechanism, which
works very nicely
to spawn new threads
as we've talked about before.